---
title: "Flood risks of cyber-physical attacks in a smart storm water system"
collection: under_review
permalink: /publication/2023-WRR
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-2-28
venue: 'Water Resources Research'
paperurl: ''
citation: '<b>Lin, C. Y.</b>, Moazeni, F., & Yang, Y. C. E. (2023, under review). Flood risks of cyber-physical attacks in a smart storm water system, <i>Water Resources Research</i>.'
---
This paper is currently under review.

The widespread adoption of Internet-of-Things (IoT)-based infrastructures has introduced new cybersecurity risks to water systems. Nevertheless, the cyber-physical attack risks have not been thoroughly evaluated. This study aims to investigate this concept and proposes a method for quantifying cyber-physical attack risks. Our proposed method is implemented on a smart stormwater system, which is a network of pond-conduit systems equipped with water level sensors and outflow gate actuators that are controlled in real-time. Our objective is to quantify the flood risks posed by a particular type of cyber-attack known as false data injection (FDI), where attackers inject false data into the control system to mimic the white noises without being detected. Our calculation takes into account sensor noise and weather forecast uncertainties. Our results indicate that FDI can increase flood risks by disrupting the feedback control system with false data that result in inaccurate outflow control signals. Additionally, we observe that FDI can alter the flood risk patterns over various storm intensities, with greater cyber-physical attack risks identified during smaller, more frequent storms. These findings provide additional insights into cyber-physical attack risks for effective planning and investment decisions in smart stormwater systems. Furthermore, our method for quantifying cyber-physical attack risks can be applied to other network-based water systems, including irrigation canal systems, multi-reservoir systems, and water distribution systems, to develop strategies for defending against cyber-attacks.